Welcome to JW Broadcasting®.
In this month’s program,
we’ll examine what “the good news” is
and why it’s such a blessing.
We’ll consider how examples from
from the Bible
and our modern history encourage us
to declare all of the good news boldly.
We’ll learn from a faithful brother in Rwanda
how we can maintain
our zeal for the good news
despite persecution and imprisonment.
And we’ll enjoy a new music video
that reminds us
how much joy we can have
sharing the good news with others.
This is JW Broadcasting
for October 2023.
As Jehovah’s Witnesses,
we have a wonderful privilege
—the privilege of “declaring the good news”!
But just what does that good news include?
If we know the answer,
how will that motivate us
to be even more zealous
as we declare the good news?
Let’s consider the answers
to those questions.
First of all,
what is the good news?
We get an idea
by looking at how this expression
is used in the Bible.
For example,
we read of “the good news of the Kingdom,”
“the good news of God,”
“the good news about Jesus Christ,”
“the good news
of the undeserved kindness of God,”
“the good news of peace,”
and the “everlasting good news.”
So we can say that the good news refers
to the rule of God’s Kingdom
and salvation by faith in Jesus.
This includes all the truths
about which Jesus spoke
and the disciples wrote.
Through the prophet Isaiah,
Jehovah spoke
about the preaching of the good news.
Isaiah’s prophecy described the purpose
and effect of the good news to be preached,
particularly from the time
of Messiah’s coming.
Notice what’s recorded at Isaiah 61:1, 2:
“The spirit of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah
is upon me,
“because Jehovah anointed me
to declare good news to the meek.
“He sent me to bind up the brokenhearted,
“to proclaim liberty to the captives
“and the wide opening of the eyes
to the prisoners,
“to proclaim the year of Jehovah’s goodwill
“and the day of vengeance of our God,
to comfort all who mourn.”
This good news would have a positive effect
on those who listened to it.
It would “bind up the brokenhearted”
and “comfort all who mourn.”
This is likely the kind of good news
that we talk about most in our ministry.
The prospect of enjoying everlasting life
in an earthly paradise
under the rule of God’s Kingdom
provides hope to our listeners
and motivates them to love Jehovah.
However, the good news
also includes something else,
something that we may not talk about
as readily in our ministry.
You may have noticed in Isaiah
the expression
“and the day of vengeance of our God.”
So there’s more to the good news
than just “the year of Jehovah’s goodwill.”
We see this clearly in the words recorded
at Revelation 14:6, 7:
“And I saw another angel flying in midheaven,
“and he had everlasting good news
“to declare to those who dwell on the earth,
“to every nation and tribe
“and tongue and people.
“He was saying in a loud voice:
“‘Fear God and give him glory,
“‘because the hour of judgment by him
has arrived,
“‘so worship the One who made the heaven
“‘and the earth and the sea
and the springs of water.’”
Evidently, the “everlasting good news”
also includes a judgment message.
What is “the hour of judgment”
mentioned in this verse?
According to some reference works,
the original language term
here rendered “judgment”
refers to a “legal process of judgment,”
a “scrutiny of conduct.”
So God is looking closely at conduct
—how people act.
That is the basis for judgment.
“The hour of judgment”
mentioned in this verse
includes both the pronouncement
and the execution of divine judgment
against all false religion
—Babylon the Great—
and all other parts
of Satan’s system of things.
Of course, Babylon the Great
and this world’s institutions
have already been judged.
However,
their sentence has yet to be carried out.
When will that happen?
Toward the end of “the hour of judgment,”
which will conclude
at the climax of the last days
with the destruction
of the present wicked system.
That’s why the actions of people today
matter so much.
It’s increasingly urgent that we proclaim
the judgment aspect of the good news to them
because the time
when God will execute judgment
is fast approaching.
Why, though,
can we say that this judgment message
is good news?
It’s good news for honesthearted ones
because it means the end of wickedness,
including all forms
of injustice and violence.
For those who are suffering
as a result of the bad actions of the wicked,
this judgment will bring great relief!
It will be a clear demonstration
of Jehovah’s love and justice.
However, it will be bad news
for those who stubbornly refuse
to live by Jehovah’s righteous standards.
In Bible times,
Jehovah warned of various acts of judgment
that he would bring against those
who deliberately disobeyed his commands.
In each case,
he informed the affected people
well in advance
and instructed them to make changes
that were in harmony with his will.
To encourage the right response,
he often used his loyal servants on earth
to announce his judgments
and to convey a sense of urgency.
For example, think of Noah.
For years,
he fearlessly warned
the immoral and violent people of his day
about a coming global Flood.
He also told them
they needed to do to survive.
What about Moses and Aaron?
Jehovah used them
to warn Pharaoh and his servants.
For example,
think about the specific warning Jehovah gave
regarding the seventh plague,
a devastating hailstorm.
At Exodus 9:18, 19,
we read that Moses and Aaron
gave the people
the time and the information they needed
to protect themselves from the storm.
Yes, Jehovah always makes sure
that people have sufficient opportunity
to heed his warnings.
Second Peter 3:9 says:
“He does not desire anyone to be destroyed
but desires all to attain to repentance.”
The good news we are now preaching
informs people
not only of the marvelous hope for the future
that Jehovah offers
but also of what we must do
to enjoy that hope.
That’s why we need to let people know
about Jehovah’s soon-to-come judgment.
Notice how the preaching of the good news
is tied to divine judgment
at Matthew 24:14:
“And this good news of the Kingdom
“will be preached in all the inhabited earth
“for a witness to all the nations,
and then the end will come.”
Note how the good news serves as “a witness”
to everyone who hears it.
Depending on what they do with it,
it will result in their eventual acquittal
or condemnation.
Just as a court takes time
to hear all the facts
and to weigh all the evidence,
Jesus is wisely using his time now
to judge people fairly.
Both he and Jehovah continue
to analyze the conduct of individuals
and how they respond
to the good news that we’re preaching.
How should what we’ve just considered
about the good news affect us?
For one thing,
we will not hold back
from sharing all of the good news.
We will talk about the future blessings
God has promised
as well as God’s judgment of the wicked,
which will make these blessings possible.
Imagine for a moment
that you knew that a dangerous storm
was bearing down on where you lived.
What would you do?
Wouldn’t you try to be
as prepared as possible
so that you
could successfully weather the storm?
Wouldn’t you warn your family,
friends, even neighbors
and try to help them to do the same?
In a similar way,
we try to help as many people as possible
to prepare for the impending execution
of Jehovah’s judgments on this world.
While being tactful,
we do not hold back from letting people know
what they need to do to be saved.
For example,
we help our Bible students
to understand what they need to do.
In a frank yet kind way,
we help them to see
what changes they need to make
to harmonize their lives
with Jehovah’s standards.
Our new study tool, Enjoy Life Forever!,
is designed to help us do such teaching.
It includes several features
to help our Bible students qualify
to preach the good news as soon as possible.
For example,
at the end of each section,
there is a review with questions,
some of which are quite pointed.
Considering these questions with our students
can help them to see
what they need to do
to apply what they’ve been learning
in their Bible study.
We’ll have an opportunity
to watch a video later on in this program
that will demonstrate
some of the features in Enjoy Life Forever!
and how we can use them
to help our Bible students.
Understanding the importance
of the good news
will also motivate us
to preach and teach it with urgency!
We’ll strive to have a full share
in all aspects of the ministry
available to us.
Rather than taking a casual approach,
we’ll be zealous
and “work at it whole-souled as for Jehovah.”
Why?
Because we realize
that people’s lives are at stake;
they urgently need to hear the good news
and respond to it.
Of course, we all have
different circumstances and abilities.
We know that Jehovah and Jesus
take this into account.
In Jesus’ illustration of the talents,
not all the slaves
were given the same number of talents.
Rather, the talents were distributed
‘according to their ability.’
This reminds us that Jehovah and Jesus
are aware of our personal situations.
They know what we can reasonably do,
and they never expect anything beyond that.
Nor do they compare us
to our fellow brothers and sisters.
Knowing this is very comforting
because we may not always be able to do
all that we want to do in the preaching work.
That’s often the case
with our dear older ones
and others who cope with serious limitations.
However, we can all feel confident
that as long as we do our personal best,
Jehovah will be pleased with us.
He’ll never ‘forget our work
and the love that we show.’
So may each of us
continue to do all that we can
to share the good news
—all of the good news!
By doing so,
we will experience great joy and contentment
as we participate
in this lifesaving work,
helping as many as possible
before it’s too late.
Do you sometimes worry, though,
how people might react,
especially to a stronger judgment message?
Facing this fear is not new.
God’s people in ancient and modern times
have dealt with it too.
In the following demonstration,
let’s see what one brother is moved to do
after meditating on their examples.
Good morning.
Sorry I was running
a little behind this morning,
but at least I come bearing gifts.
Oh.
No worries.
Thank you.
I could really use it today.
Were you also thinking
about that announcement
about the special preaching campaign?
Yeah-yeah, I was.
Don’t take what I’m going to say
the wrong way,
but
don’t you think
the message we’ll be preaching
is pretty harsh?
No, I wouldn’t say that,
but it’s definitely very direct.
I mean, people already get defensive
whenever you challenge their beliefs,
and this is going to be the next level.
This isn’t going to be
the easiest message to deliver.
But, you know,
it’s not the first time we’ve done this.
Really?
Absolutely.
I don’t know if you remember me telling you
that my family is originally from Quebec,
and my dad was part
of an incredibly hard-hitting witness
back in the 1940’s.
I looked this up last night.
He had to distribute a tract that called out
the local religious leaders as hypocrites.
What were they doing?
They were inciting their followers
to mob violence against the Witnesses,
telling them to vandalize our properties,
even getting brothers falsely arrested
and imprisoned.
Wow, and they had to distribute that tract
during the violence?
They had to.
Jehovah wanted to show
how unjust their actions were.
But I remember my dad telling me—
He said that initially
he was pretty terrified.
Yeah, I mean, that’s how I feel.
I’m-I’m terrified.
It’s normal to feel that way.
I’ve been thinking about it myself,
and I thought of an account in Exodus.
It’s where Moses tells the Israelites
to splatter the blood of a ram
on their doorposts
in order to avoid
the effects of the last plague.
And I thought
about how some of the Israelites
might have felt about doing that back then.
That’s all Moses told us.
And everyone has to do this?
Every family?
Rams are sacred to the Egyptians!
Yeah, this would be an affront to Amon-Ra.
How are the Egyptians going to react?
I know.
I’ve thought about that too.
Does Moses know what he’s asking us to do?
Brothers, I don’t know
if we have anything to worry about.
We don’t have anything to fear.
Think of how Jehovah has protected us
with these last plagues.
And as for the blood,
it’s not a matter of offending them;
it’s a matter of protecting us.
It’s showing whose side we’re on
—Jehovah’s side.
Looking back,
what the Israelites did
was actually good news.
It meant their deliverance,
and it’s the same
with any message we bear today.
Let me show you one of my favorite scriptures
at Isaiah 41:10.
It says:
“Do not be afraid, for I am with you.
“Do not be anxious, for I am your God.
“I will fortify you, yes, I will help you,
“I will really hold on to you
with my right hand of righteousness.”
The fear we feel is natural.
But remember,
Jehovah was with the Israelites,
he was with my dad,
and he will be with us.
The message we are sharing is good news.
The faithful record of God’s servants,
ancient and modern,
strengthens us to carry out
our preaching work
and declare the good news.
Meditating on Jehovah’s unfailing support
can help us overcome any fear we may have.
Our Bible students face many challenges
as they learn about the good news.
They may need to make drastic changes
to harmonize their lives
with Jehovah’s standards.
This can be difficult.
How can we help them make these changes
so that they can begin sharing
the good news alongside us?
Enjoy Life Forever!
has been designed to help us do just that.
Let’s see encouraging evidence
that this powerful tool is really working.
When I heard about the new publication,
the Enjoy Life Forever!  book,
I was very nervous.
It was a change,
and sometimes
I don’t like change.
But I knew that it was for the best.
I just needed to try it out.
I hadn’t had a progressive Bible study in years.
But the book—
The way it was designed
was to help me as a teacher.
Once the features of this new publication
were explained,
that it was going to help us
to help our Bible students
begin preaching in the ministry
as well as help our Bible students
make changes in their everyday lives,
we were really excited
about using those features
to help our students to do so.
I like the “Some People Say” section
at the bottom of the lesson
because that helps prepare her
for informal witnessing.
It helps them to formulate in their own words
how to defend their faith
or how to preach informally
or use those opportunities
to share what they’ve just learned.
This was her way of learning
how to feel comfortable
talking to others about Jehovah
and teaching others about Jehovah.
You’re right away,
from lesson 01 and lesson 02,
encouraging them to recognize
that it’s not
just about what they’re learning
but it’s also
about what they can share with others.
As the Bible teacher,
it helps us to round out the rough edges
so that when they do speak to others,
it’s tactful.
I put her in that place,
like: “What would you say
if someone told you that Jesus was God?
How would you answer that question?”
And that went to her heart,
and she was able to answer the question.
“Well, I would tell them this.
I would say this.”
Because that’s exactly what happened.
She was telling her family
about the lessons that she was learning,
the things that she learned from the Bible,
so all along she was informally witnessing
and not realizing that’s what she was doing.
So when you see that connection
between what they’re learning
and how they can use what they learn,
it’s just a wonderful feeling
because you recognize that now
they’ll be able to teach somebody else.
One thing that the book also does
is that it progressively helps the student
to make changes in their personal life
in order to live by Jehovah’s standards.
The section review is a series of questions
that usually has a key question
or a key verse related to that lesson.
So before going on to the next section,
it’s almost like a filter.
It stops them,
helps them to review,
and helps the teacher realize,
‘Hmm,
they don’t quite understand that point.’
They are excellent
because they can get
the expressions from your student,
and now you can really focus
on what exactly the issues are
that they’re having.
I was able to see
if she had any gray areas,
if there was a problem,
or if she didn’t understand something.
Are they saying,
“The book says” or “You taught me this”?
Then you know, ‘OK,
they need to be reminded of the Scriptures,’
and you need to seed that truth
a little bit deeper into their heart.
That’s when I saw my student express herself
and let me know things she was thinking
or things that were bothering her
or that she realized
that she needed to make changes with.
The questions are a bit more personal
than maybe you would have asked in the past.
They’re a bit more pointed
than maybe we have the habit of of asking.
In comparing my questions I used in the past
with what’s in the Enjoy Life Forever!  book,
I mean, I wasn’t getting anywhere before.
These questions really help the students
speak from their heart,
and I’m so glad they’re there.
It takes time.
It also takes patience and love on our part
to let them make those changes
so they can qualify
to become an unbaptized publisher.
This publication,
the Enjoy Life Forever!  book,
is like no other.
It makes it much easier for them,
and you can help them much faster to get there.
That book has helped a lot.
It has definitely boosted my confidence.
It was designed to just bring people
right into the truth.
She said the book was made especially for her.
When the time came for her
to do the door-to-door ministry,
she was ready.
My student has already started
several Bible studies.
This study program has trained him now
to be a Bible teacher.
If you follow everything that’s in the book,
it’s like a complete study.
There’s little that we can add ourselves.
It’s all there.
Enjoy Life Forever!
has many well-worded questions,
some of which are quite pointed,
to help our students reason on God’s Word
and to think deeply about the changes
they need to make to please Jehovah.
The publication also shows them
how to preach informally
and stresses
how important it is for all of us
to share what we know with others.
Everyone who serves Jehovah
has the responsibility
to declare all of the good news.
Paul reminded us at 1 Thessalonians 2:2
that we would need
boldness to preach the good news
“in the face of much opposition.”
How can we do that?
Let’s learn from
Brother Gaspard Rwakabubu’s experience
and see how
he maintained his zeal through persecution
and imprisonment.
During the 1970’s,
the preaching work
was not recognized in Rwanda.
When my family and I
received a letter of invitation
to go serve there,
we were living a good life.
We had some concerns,
but praying to Jehovah
and asking him for direction helped us.
I discussed it with my wife,
and we were both positive about it.
We made a request
for legal recognition in 1982,
but instead, I
and two other brothers
were thrown into prison.
One day, on a Sunday,
the archbishop came to the prison,
and he announced,
“Beware of those Jehovah’s Witnesses.”
As a result of that,
he raised the curiosity of his listeners.
The prisoners wanted some explanations from us
because they could not understand what he meant.
Many began to join our meetings.
The archbishop was not happy.
He grew even angrier.
And in order to stop our activities,
he told his close followers to beat us up
when we attended the following meeting.
Two young prisoners approached us,
and they said,
“Today they plan to beat you up.”
When our meeting time came,
we didn’t show up.
Another religious group came
and took our place that night,
so they were the ones who got beaten up.
From that time on,
no one disturbed us any longer.
We continued preaching
and attending meetings peacefully.
After spending two years in prison,
we were freed.
Outside of prison,
the brothers were not free to preach.
Many more brothers and sisters
kept being arrested and imprisoned.
Later, I was put in prison again,
and the imprisoned brothers
rejoiced over my presence, saying,
“We now have our circuit overseer visiting us.”
They were very happy.
We started working together
in harmony and preaching.
Each one was assigned a territory.
Some were discouraged,
but I tried to strengthen
and encourage them to hold on to Jehovah.
Then brothers from all over the world
started to write to the head of state.
Letters were coming in huge quantities!
Those letters had a good impact because,
finally, one day
an announcement was made on the radio
by the president himself
saying that he pardoned Jehovah’s Witnesses.
The people on the street started shouting at us:
“Jehovah has won!
He has won!”
The work of Jehovah’s Witnesses
was legally recognized in 1992.
Sadly, in 1994,
during the time of genocide,
some of our brothers died
and others faced serious challenges.
Some fled to Goma as refugees.
I received the assignment
to oversee the relief funds
that were coming from Kinshasa.
One day,
I had just collected the relief money
for our refugee brothers,
and I was stopped by two policemen.
They possibly thought
that they could get that money.
So they asked me to go with them
to their superior.
As we were walking,
I remembered a prayer
that our daughter Deborah said
during the genocide.
While the whole family was praying silently,
she prayed out loud,
pouring her heart out to Jehovah.
Thanks to that,
they refrained from killing us.
This moved me to pray in my heart too.
As soon as I said “Amen,”
the two policemen turned right
and went to meet their colleague.
I also saw in front of me a brother
holding a black suitcase,
looking exactly like the one
I had with the money.
I handed him mine, full of money,
and he gave me his with literature inside.
Then without delay, the policemen said:
“Let’s go now.
Let’s go.”
We walked all the way to the chief of police,
but they found nothing.
They were holding their chins in their hands,
saying: “This is a miracle!
How could the money we saw
turn into books?”
In all the trials I’ve encountered,
I really saw Jehovah’s powerful hand!
As a house built on a rock
that is struck by storms
(hit by anything)
but remains firm,
we too met with many trying challenges,
but Jehovah continued to make us firm,
just like a house built on a rock.
A scripture found at Isaiah 54:17
explains that in reality
all those fighting against us,
no matter who they are,
will never succeed.
Up until this moment,
although my physical strength
is gradually fading,
I feel that the power to serve Jehovah
is growing so much.
In fact, I feel more powerful than ever.
My determination
is that no matter the situation,
I will continue to serve Jehovah.
I’ve met Brother Rwakabubu
and personally heard
many of his amazing experiences,
some of which he acted out for me.
The experience of his daughter’s prayer
can be found
on pages 198 and 199
of the 2012 Yearbook of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Brother Rwakabubu’s daughter
was six years old
when she prayed
in front of a group of soldiers.
The soldiers were planning to kill
the entire family,
including Brother Rwakabubu’s five children.
However, her innocent and earnest prayer
touched the hearts
of those hardened soldiers.
Today, Brother Rwakabubu
deals with various health issues
that resulted from his persecution
and imprisonment.
However, Brother Rwakabubu’s reliance
on Jehovah
and his love of the good news
has enabled him to maintain his zeal
—even as he’s grown older.
Sharing the good news informally
can have powerful results.
But to be effective, we need to be prepared.
How?
As we’ll see
in this following morning worship,
we can learn from the example
of the Great Teacher, Jesus.
Jesus, as the Great Teacher,
created opportunities to witness to others.
And of course, an excellent example of that
is found in John chapter 4.
So if you turn with me, please,
to John chapter 4,
let’s analyze how Jesus was able
to do informal witnessing,
and we’ll see what lessons
we can learn from it.
So in looking at John chapter 4,
to get the background,
we see that in verses 3-6 it mentions
that Jesus left Judea,
and he was going toward Galilee.
But he decided to go through Samaria
and ended up in Sychar.
In looking at the study note,
we notice that this was a journey
that involved an ascent
of some 3,000 feet (914 m).
Now, that’s a very high elevation
to climb up to.
In rough terms,
we could say it’s like going up
300 floors, or stories,
in a building.
Imagine how you would feel
at the end of that.
So if Jesus and his apostles
had made that journey that morning,
it’s no wonder that in verse 6,
it says that he was “tired out.”
He was sitting there,
and it mentions in verse 6, too,
it was the sixth hour, or about midday.
So imagine the setting:
Jesus is in Samaria,
he’s tired,
and it’s about midday
—not the best circumstances
for starting to witness.
So, what’s the first lesson
we learn from this?
Jesus didn’t wait for the perfect opportunity
to informal witness.
No, he used whatever opportunity came up
and created opportunities.
So, of course, the woman comes along.
Notice in verse 7 how Jesus introduced,
or started, this conversation.
He simply said: “Give me a drink.”
He didn’t dive
into some deep spiritual discussion,
but rather,
he just started talking to the woman.
Well, what lesson do we learn from that?
You see, if we’re interested
in witnessing to others informally,
perhaps all it takes
is just greeting them, saying hello.
And of course, if they’re not even willing
to start talking to us,
it’s very hard to go much further.
So that’s the first lesson.
How did the woman respond?
Well, we’ll notice as we go
through John chapter 4,
there were at least four potential problems
that Jesus had to avoid
as he continued this discussion.
The first of these problems
is recorded in verse 9.
There straightaway she says,
‘You’re a Jew,
and I’m a Samaritan woman.
How come you’re talking to me?’
So she referred to his appearance,
his background.
Well, in a similar way today,
sometimes someone may take a look at us
and refer to our color
or racial background or nationality.
And that could be a negative thing.
But what did Jesus say?
Well, he didn’t respond and say:
‘You know, I’m a nice person.
That’s how come I’m willing to talk to you.’
No, he completely avoided that whole issue
and focused on the spiritual message
that he wanted to convey to her.
So we notice that in verse 10,
he speaks “of the free gift of God,”
and he also mentions
that this woman could get “living water,”
not just the water
that she was interested in at that point.
Now, when we analyze
how the conversation went,
we can see clearly that Jesus
laid the foundation here at this point
for what he was going to say later.
You see, he started with water.
Then he mentions God’s gifts
and “living water,”
and we’ll see how he develops that
a little further as we go on.
Well, what happened at that point
when he offered this “living water”?
Well, in verse 11, notice she says:
“You do not even have a bucket.”
So in other words,
she was basically saying:
‘I don’t believe you.
The well is very deep.’
The study note says
it’s maybe about 75 feet (23 m) deep.
So this is a negative reaction on her part,
followed up by something else
that was very controversial in Jesus’ day.
She says, ‘Do you think you’re better
than our forefather Jacob?’
Now, that was very controversial
because the average Jew in those days
would have objected to that comment,
saying that she wasn’t a relative of Jacob.
So here we have
another two possible problems.
How did Jesus handle it?
Well, he just focused back
on the spiritual message.
As we mentioned,
as recorded in verse 10,
he started with water, God’s gift,
and “living water.”
And then if we look at verse 14,
he speaks about drinking water
so that you
would “never get thirsty at all” again.
And then he introduces
the concept, or thought,
of everlasting life.
So obviously, Jesus had in his mind
a plan of action, or a little outline,
of how he could develop a certain theme.
And that was to do with water
leading to everlasting life.
Well, how did the woman respond
at that point?
Notice, in verse 15, she says:
“Sir, give me this water.”
Now, was she saying,
‘Please, I really want it’?
Or was she perhaps a little cynical,
maybe even a little sarcastic?
Well, it’s hard for us to tell.
It doesn’t seem until later
that she fully believed Jesus.
But whatever the case,
it perhaps could,
in a modern setting, be like her saying,
‘That sounds good,
but it’s too good to be true.’
Did that stop Jesus?
No.
Jesus then basically changes
the direction of the conversation
and gives her an opportunity
to show her honesty.
Jesus realized that she was coming
at that time of the day
to avoid perhaps others seeing her.
Why?
Well, in verse 16,
Jesus says to her: “Call your husband.”
She says:
“I do not have a husband”
—a very honest comment to a stranger.
Then Jesus said:
“You are right.
“You have had five husbands,
“and the man you now have
is not your husband.
This you have said truthfully.”
Well, now, what do we learn from this?
You see, although Jesus knew
that she was living
in an immoral relationship,
still, that wasn’t the focus.
He gave her
an opportunity to express herself,
and then what did he do?
He commended her.
So in a similar way,
it’s good for us to always try to find points
that we can commend the person for,
even if they say something
that is totally opposite
to what the Bible says.
We can at least thank them
for expressing their viewpoint
and being honest about it.
So as we continue on,
we then see, at this point,
the woman has really taken notice
because she says:
“Sir, I see that you are a prophet.”
But then the next problem,
the fourth problem, comes in.
What does she say?
‘Well, we worship here at Mount Gerizim,
but you Jews,
you say we should worship in Jerusalem.’
So, basically,
it’s the modern equivalent of saying,
‘I have my own religion,
and it’s different from yours.’
Well, how did Jesus deal
with that potential problem?
Well, when we look at verse 21,
it’s interesting to see
how he starts the answer by saying:
“The hour is coming
when neither on this mountain
nor in Jerusalem
will you worship the Father.”
So, basically,
Jesus was just allaying her concern
and saying: ‘Look, don’t worry.
‘In the future,
this is not going to be an issue,
whether it’s here or there.’
And then he goes on to explain
that the important thing is
to “worship the Father
with spirit and truth.”
So, what do we see from that?
Jesus tried to help her to see
that what she perceived as being a problem
really wasn’t an issue at all.
It wasn’t something they had to go through
and explain all the details.
Of course, he did mention
that “salvation [began] with the Jews,”
but then he showed her very clearly
what she needed to do.
Now, why was that so important?
Well, if we turn
to the book of Acts 8:14,
there’s a very interesting study note there
that tells us
that what Jesus did on this occasion,
in witnessing to this woman
and then to various ones in her community,
laid the basis
for what Philip the evangelizer
would later do
when he moved to Samaria
and helped many there to become Christians.
And ultimately they became
anointed Christians.
So Jesus’ conversation here with this woman
certainly was very, very successful.
So, what have we learned from this discussion
looking through John chapter 4?
First of all, Jesus didn’t wait
for the perfect opportunity;
he created that opportunity.
Second, he wasn’t distracted,
or sidetracked,
by the various issues
—some of them controversial—
that this woman raised,
but he focused on a spiritual theme.
He had something in mind
where he would use water
to eventually describe everlasting life.
And then he commended her
for her honest remarks
and showed her what she needed to do.
What an excellent lesson this is
for all of us
as we try to witness to others!
Start simple,
have a theme in mind,
and commend the person.
What a simple formula!
I’m sure you’ll want to try this approach
as soon as possible.
When we meditate on the good news,
we can’t help but want to share it
at every possible opportunity.
We just can’t hold back!
That’s the theme of this month’s music video.
The signs we see are clear;
The end of this world is near.
But how will they know the way to go
Without a chance to hear?
The truth we cannot hide.
Our fear we must set aside.
Look to God, and pray to fan the flame,
And let it burn inside.
With this fire in our bones,
We’ll make his message known.
We know
we can’t hold back.
So let’s keep it burning bright
And spread his glorious light.
We know
we can’t hold back.
We can’t hold back.
So let’s do all we can.
Soon these words of hope will end.
When that time has come,
we’ll stand as one;
God’s name
we will defend.
With this fire in our bones,
We’ll make his message known.
We know
we can’t hold back.
So let’s keep it burning bright
And spread his glorious light.
We know
we can’t hold back.
We can’t hold back.
So keep the fire burning;
keep it burning strong.
Jehovah’s day is near;
it won’t be long.
Let’s carry on.
With this fire in our bones,
We’ll make his message known.
We know
we can’t hold back.
So let’s keep it burning bright
And spread his glorious light.
We know
we can’t hold back.
We can’t hold back.
Isn’t it wonderful how our preaching efforts
may help people accept the good news?
In turn,
they’ll be moved to share it with others.
And what a difference
it makes in their lives!
Last month, the first episode
in the new series Imitate Their Faith
brought to life much of Abraham’s story.
But what happened next
in the life of this man
who the Bible refers to
as “the father of all those having faith”?
Let’s find out in Part 2.
One year ago,
Jehovah told Abraham something
that seemed impossible.
His wife, Sarah, would have a son.
Our son, Isaac.
Sarah’s miraculous pregnancy and Isaac’s birth
were proof that Jehovah’s word
always comes true.
As the rains came down,
there they were, eight souls,
safe on the ark.
Jehovah protected Noah’s family.
That’s why we’re alive today.
And you know, that’s not the only time.
There have been many things that seemed scary.
But Jehovah always
makes sure his promises come true.
Think how he helped to protect your mother
when Pharaoh wanted to take her as his wife.
Think how he sent angels to save Lot.
Remember he caused your birth.
I’m your father, but Jehovah is your Father too.
You are part of his purpose, Isaac.
Hard things are going to happen,
but remember we can always trust Jehovah.
Because he always keeps his promises.
That’s right!
Remember the promise Jehovah made to our family?
“I will give to you
“and to your offspring after you
“the land in which you lived as a . . . lasting possession,
and I will be their God.”
Come here.
Hard things did happen,
even in this spiritual household.
I am the star. I am the firstborn.
Everybody hates you. Nobody likes you.
Our father loves me. The joke is on you, Isaac.
I am the firstborn.
No one cares about you, not even God.
The dancing is for me.
Everybody hates you. Nobody likes you.
This wasn’t just sibling rivalry.
Ishmael’s abusive behavior had broken Sarah’s heart.
Please, please, please,
drive out that slave girl and her son.
Do not be displeased
by what Sarah is saying to you
about the boy and about your slave girl.
Listen to her,
for what will be called your offspring
will be through Isaac.
As for the son of the slave girl,
I will also make a nation out of him,
because he is your offspring.
Though it was hard,
Abraham obediently sent Hagar
and his son Ishmael away,
trusting that Jehovah had his eyes upon them.
Abraham!
Here I am!
Take, please, your son,
your only son whom you so love, Isaac,
and travel to the land of Moriah
and offer him up there as a burnt offering
on one of the mountains that I will designate to you.
Let’s go.
In the past,
Abraham had asked God questions
about some of his judgments and decisions,
but now his friendship and trust in Jehovah
had grown.
He didn’t ask anything at all.
You stay here with the donkey,
but the boy and I will go over there
and worship and return to you.
Father!
Yes, my son!
Here are the fire and the wood,
but where is the sheep
for the burnt offering?
God himself will provide the sheep
for the burnt offering, my son.
Abraham, Abraham!
Here I am!
Do not harm the boy,
and do not do anything at all to him,
for now I do know that you are God-fearing
because you have not withheld your son,
your only one, from me.
And by means of your offspring
all nations of the earth
will obtain a blessing for themselves
because you have listened to my voice.
Abraham
and Sarah
and Isaac
all knew they could have full faith in Jehovah.
His promises to them are promises to us.
When we immerse ourselves
in familiar Bible accounts,
we gain an even deeper appreciation
for their power
and more firmly embed in our hearts
the lessons we learn from them.
In this month’s postcard,
we’ll visit our brothers in Lesotho,
a country in the south of Africa.
Lesotho is over 1,000 meters,
or 3,280 feet, above sea level,
with some of its mountain peaks
rising three times as high.
The majority of its two million people,
called Basotho, live in rural areas.
Many herd animals or farm for a living.
Weather conditions can change quickly
in Lesotho’s mountainous terrain,
calling for protection from sudden cold.
So the famous Basotho blanket
comes in quite handy,
especially in winter
when the mountains are blanketed in snow.
Of course, the good news must be spread
despite cold or heights
as our brothers there have been doing
for over 80 years.
In 1942,
two Basotho Witnesses
who learned the truth in South Africa
returned to preach enthusiastically
in this challenging territory.
Nine years later,
there were five small congregations
with 63 Witnesses.
In the 1960’s and 1970’s,
the work continued
thanks to the tireless efforts
of zealous evangelizers.
Today, over 3,700 publishers
conduct over 4,500 Bible studies
each month.
Because Lesotho’s population is widely spread
across a challenging terrain,
our brothers exert themselves to preach
wherever the people live.
Many of our brothers here climb steep paths
to get to their meetings
—especially the 78 publishers
of the Mokhotlong Congregation,
who meet in the highest Kingdom Hall
in southern Africa.
From the heights of Lesotho,
the brothers and sisters
of the Mokhotlong Congregation
send you their warmest greetings.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.